# Final report

At the HDX website, I picked and downloaded Croatian road network and health facilities files and therefore able to produce several plots of them respectively. 

For road network system in Split (the second most populous city I selected in Croatia), it presents different levels of the roads in terms of their different characteristics, some of which are one-way, paved or unpaved, with different number of layers, of different uses for highway, etc. I attempted to categorize them into primary, secondary, and tertiary roads based on these characteristics. After plotting, I combined the pattern of population who resides in Split with road network and found it was interesting that the most populous area is not actually the area where road network concentrates most. However, these different levels of roads do connect these most populous areas in Split altogether in some way. 

Similarly, I produced a plot on some health care facilities in Split, too. Based on several most typical indices such as hospitals, clinics, and doctors, I re-plotted them on road map and discovered that they are mostly located in the middle of these road network, which makes sense in reality because hospitals and clinics are usually built in urban areas with convenient traffic so that citizens can access to them anytime. 

As the last step, I tried to plot all these in two-and-three dimensions and found that it was clearer to observe all these roads and health care facilities in 3D by taking its geographical shape into account. Such topography angle can enhance my understanding of Croatia’s geographical format of its city planning and how population may reside around within this large district, Split. Compared to other plots, these last plots give me a more direct sense of how far and how approachable for local Croatian residents to go shopping, medical check, or other routine stuff. I also communicated with my other friends in this class on the plots we get. Some of them selected African countries which are not as developed as my selected country, Croatia (developed country). Therefore, it is visually evident that our road networks and health facilities exhibit different extent of complexity on map as well. As a conclusion, sometimes plots like these are a good signal for us to visualize developmental differences between developing and developed countries.
