As we step into the 21st century, technology has advanced at a faster pace than it ever had in history, bringing in more possibilities of data-related work to people’s life. In the article, Blumenstock introduced to us how processing data with digital tools can facilitate the international development by helping figure out some problems that used to be insolvable or simplify the efforts required to accomplish something in reality.

In this article, the author Blumenstock first presents us with the promises that data science has achieved in recent years, including some interesting and useful discoveries, such as differences in different people’s tendency to repay their debts, or assistance of people in poverty to get loans or nutrition aids. By tracking various sources of data within a region, these data scientists can actually delineate a map that records or predicts the population in the most urgent need. On the human-based side, people do not need complicated and extra movements to help along with experts; instead, their digital footprints have largely provided data scientists the important insight of the happenings in that region. To quote, according to Blumenstock in article, “digital footprints could similarly improve public-health interventions during an epidemic”, which can be applied to our COVID-19 global pandemic at the moment! These promising aspects of data science has helped addressed similar issues in the past years.

On the other hand, Blumenstock also gives out some pitfalls, including problems on unanticipated effects, lack of validation, biased algorithms in computer, and insufficient regulations. To support his point, Blumenstock questions the evidence of effectiveness of loans given to people in need. In many African countries, these loans given to people may lead them into another cycle of poverty. Even worse, statistics in article shows that more than a half number of loan takers never realized the interest rates they need to bear one day. Therefore, all these help from data may offer some assistance to poor people, but in some cases it would also leave some invisible traps to them. Another interesting pitfall I read from article is that it may also generate the biased algorithms, which is a terrible phenomenon because these cumulative data would unconsciously favor those of wealthier classes and ignore those at the poorer end. Based on the prior statistics, data scientists will easily find out that poorly people will be increasingly marginalized geographically on map, even widening the income inequality between rich and poor. Plus, many private data companies are driven by profits, not necessarily the ethics or the overall development of a country. Therefore, in these cases, government regulation in data uses has also become very important to govern a nation to a better end.

Ways forward that Blumenstock has proposed are effective to me because it considers many effects. Blumenstock proposes to validate the sources of data, which means both conventional and today’s sources of data sets need to be involved. In this case, it may save many costs for companies or users as more and more data are taken into account. In addition, the example of a California company feels convincing to me that customization may also play a key role in many cases where loans to African families may harm them in a long-term. This will help increase the realistic value of the help as actual context will be evaluated and thus conclude a final decision. Last, increased collaboration is the key, too. Different scientists have different perspectives, not to mention the different mindsets between these scientists and government and civil society. If there exists very little transparency between these members, an ultimate goal may never achieve given that each side asks for different requirements. As Blumenstock suggests, a global network may help because it connects every role in this chain and provides room for discussions and communication.

In a brief response to the three questions, I believe most people own a good intent, but what’s more helpful is to familiarize with the context of the issue one is going to face. For example, to indeed help African children in their education, it’s best for a data scientist to know these children’s experiences and the context they’re in. Rather than simply substituting into a constant formula, data scientists may need in-person travels to understand its real mechanism of local culture, habits, or other background information. For transparency issues, people should be honest and trust each other in an environment. A group project always needs collaboration, even though a team has a top-level data scientist. Transparency is they key in a teamwork, and to reinforce it, communication is necessary. 

In conclusion, data science is one of the fields that still develops and welcomes changes in the future. Despite its close connection with computer science skills such as coding and debugging, it still has to take many human psychological factors into account in order to effect those positive changes globally. 
